[docs] Document how to use remote build cache providers (#36495)
expo/expo: docs/pages/guides/cache-builds-remotely.mdx

---
title: Use remote build cache providers
sidebar_title: Cache builds remotely
description: Accelerate local development by caching and reusing builds from a remote provider.
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

> Remote build cache is an experimental feature that allow users to search for a build with a matching fingerprint on a remote server when running `npx expo run:[ios|android]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remote build caching is an experimental feature that speeds up `npx expo run:[ios|android]` by caching builds remotely, based on the project [fingerprint](/versions/latest/sdk/fingerprint/).
```

> If a cached build exists, it downloads and launches it rather than compiling locally. Otherwise, it proceeds with a local build as usual and then uploads the resulting binary to the remote cache for future runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you run `npx expo run:[ios|android]`, it checks if a build with a matching fingerprint exists, then downloads and launches it rather than compiling it again. Otherwise, the project is compiled as usual and then the resulting binary is uploaded to the remote cache for future runs,
```

## Using EAS as a remote build provider

To use the EAS remote build provider plugin start by installing the `eas-build-cache-provider` package as a developer dependency:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo install eas-build-cache-provider']} />

Then update your **app.json** to

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    ...
    "experiments": {
      "remoteBuildCache": {
        "provider": "eas-build-cache-provider"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Creating a custom remote build provider

> 

Reviewer: let's add a link here to the github cache provider in the examples directory

Author: added
